if you think the situation is gloomy now
you've got to see what I'm about to show
you retirement is a thing of the past
and incomes will continue to shrink you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you all hope is not lost
because I'm going to show you today what
you can actually do about it but I need
to tell you what's happening the very
first step is being able to understand
what's happening at this moment and then
we can look look out 6 months a year 5
years and so on without that knowledge
and the ability to understand where
we're headed you cannot prepare properly
so we'll talk about that I've got
details to share in this video beginning
with this investors bet the global
central banks will be forced to delay
rate cuts and so you could read about
that we'll look at it in a future video
where we get into the financial aspects
about the central banks why do we cover
the central banks every single day on
this channel it's because their actions
have a direct impact on you I know some
people are saying we don't know anything
about the central banks we weren't told
about the central banks you don't really
understand them in depth because they
don't want you to know what they're
doing oh we want to know who you've
given your money to Central Bank no we
need our independence wait a second I
look at the bill and the bill let's just
say it's the US dollar oh wait a minute
it says Federal Reserve
Note that's kind of weird it seems like
they get the control the money supply
and determine what happens with it at
any given moment don't they oh now we
got some deep digging to do and so you
start to go back in history and I have
done this looked at not only the basics
not only read the common books that
you've probably heard about but I
started researching all of the details
who was at every single meeting what
they then did whose you know company
they worked for what of the associations
the VIN diagrams all this crazy stuff
for years and years and came back with
some pretty shocking things over that
time and of course I bring that to you
here on this channel you got to
understand something when they do
something when they hike when they cut
it's not to benefit you it's not even to
benefit who you would think the big
businesses corporations and all that no
no no it's for their
shareholders those that are in the
shadows but you the individual get the
short end of the stick here's one
example 29% of households have jobs but
they struggle to cover basic needs they
are one emergency from
poverty now that's strange historically
currently nearly 40 million families are
defined as Alice which stands for asset
limited income constrained employed you
see what's happening you're
employed all right you you have some
sort of
income and you don't have what you need
an asset okay so these people it could
have been bad decisions it could have
been you know they got divorced or who
knows people unfortunately incur
problems throughout their lives and they
have to deal with that but for a lot of
people it's just the danger that has
been brought upon them by the central
banks they devalue the currency and over
time it gets worse a very small a
shrinking group of people get to benefit
from this as we move through these
Cycles it's like a sine wave right and
as we move through it we start to see
what happens people are basically being
fed into and pardon this analogy a meat
grinder because that's what's going on
today look at it the peak Boomer crisis
May might only get worse a fifth of
Americans 50 and up have no retirement
savings and the majority are worried
that they won't have enough money
certainly there's a reason for this
because you can't buy anything today of
course they have no savings this is a
growing retirement crisis call it what
you want and of course we can look at
the different aspects of it but people
don't have savings so what has happened
here is that 1970 one income one you
know one job could support a household
now today not very typical not very
typical at all most people are
struggling and at the same time we are
seeing these Grand disparities some
areas are doing very well and broadly
most of the people are doing well and
then other areas you see it doing very
poorly at the same time we are seeing um
of course the rich have so much the poor
have so little and that continues to
grow and grow and grow and the problem
with that is that usually this leads to
a major crisis and of course we have to
watch the civil unrest we have to watch
all of this because it could affect
everybody this is a chart showing us
America's Financial
well-being and I have money left over at
the end of the month broken down by age
and then you could see always often
that's the blue yellow is sometimes and
red is rarely or never and so a lot of
people regardless how you look at it a
lot of people are in this circumstance
where they don't have the cash is it
because they have very bad spending
habits yes some people absolutely do
absolutely do but there's no question
about this that people today are
suffering more than they should be you
like did people have better spending
habits 10 years ago it's the same thing
right there's no real difference what
about 20 years ago you know give or take
it's basically the same thing but what
has happened is that our currencies have
been devalued drastically that's what we
need to
understand young Canadians think
retiring at 65 is an outdated concept
views on retirement are shifting
dramatically as the cost of living Rises
and longer life expectancies become the
norm certainly uh at least with
retirement itself What's Happening Here
more people they are being put into this
place to
you know closing in on 65 let's say and
they're thinking I still have a lot of
debt and the my living expenses are so
high I can't retire there's just one
issue though I I say this all the time
if you want to
retire that's okay that that's great you
should retire you should do what you
want but a lot of people they cannot
retire they can't afford it but
something comes up a family member or
their own situation
Health
emergencies different things that could
happen and now they are in dire straight
they don't know what to do look at this
just spending a lot of money is creating
demand is creating stimulus with
unemployment under 4% it shouldn't be
that surprising that prices aren't going
down spending numbers aren't going down
anytime soon so you might have sticky
inflation something that I've been
talking about a little while this was
expected by the way just to be clear
that inflation levels wouldn't just be
able to go down to 2% in a straight line
a lot of that would be quote unquote
sticky and um I don't know why anyone
necessarily with oh we're going to get
deflation well you tell me where that
deflation is maybe in people's wages uh
maybe in people's savings rates you
could see the personal savings rate in
the US has overwhelmingly just declined
as the years have go on people don't
save their money people spend their
money yes people are investing more than
before it's a lot easier to invest than
before we get that uh but let's let's be
honest people they don't they don't save
and we see that here that shows us
though that they're basically one big
problem away from a crisis right like
they you know an appliance suddenly
breaks down or something happens to
their home or what have you uhoh now I'm
in a big big trouble
you you need a rainy day fund That's
essential with inflation still high in
economic growth slowly slowing sharply
we could be headed towards stagflation
which is a scenario that nobody is
really prepared for according to UBS and
that is a big one we also on top of that
stagflation we got shrink flation you
see it everywhere right housing crisis
food flation which is one I hadn't heard
before record gas prices can is at a
Crossroads and it all comes down to the
p word I've heard a few PW before but
what they were talking about here is
productivity productivity has been
declining there's no question about this
uh at the same time you've got like if
people are spending more to get less
you're going to have that and what are
they doing about it absolutely nothing
to benefit you what can we do as
individuals yes we see the crisis we see
the problems okay let's let's talk about
this very briefly I've got the playlists
on my channel that will help you with
this okay playlists on my YouTube
channel breaking it all down there are
things that you can do number one you
can grow some food number two you can
get some storable food where can you get
storable food there's a lot of online
places Costco also has that if you look
at uh there's a YouTube channel called
well your world who I remember checking
out a while back where he lived in
probably Arizona I think it was in in
his basement the guy had all kinds of
containers proper containers store
storable containers um and this was like
from 2019 into 2020 where he said
lockdowns happen shutdowns happen he
goes I wasn't affected by it at all
because I had so much stuff just ready
to go just part of my normal daily
routine wasn't you know preparedness
that's just the way I do it he buys it
in the big huge buckets of beans and
whatever he wanted all these different
things that's just a normal thing
lockdowns came he said I I didn't have
to worry I was fine so having that level
of preparedness before the problem
starts to come on is is really what we
need to be doing there's so many other
things that we could be doing of course
but these are simple basic things at the
same time we need to have a rainy day
fund maybe for you that's different than
somebody else but you have to start
putting money aside where you can if all
you can put aside is
$1 do it why you going to say oh you
know what what's the point of that
that's not how it works you put $1 in
and if that's it that's all that's great
you are making progress you're making
progress use the skills that you have
today to bring in some extra income that
could be any kind of thing that you
you're good at it could be you're fixing
cars it could be that you're a good
Baker whatever it is use it and the
simple thing that you could be doing is
reaching out to the people around you
you know on your let's say you got a
Facebook let's say you got whatever it
is your emails you you I'm sure you know
a lot of people a handful even 20 30
people say hey I can do this thing are
you interested please let me know you
might get one you might get two sales
and that's the way things begin okay
don't just well you know forget about no
don't do that you can't sit back this is
we're being burned from the bottom the
inflationary Inferno you've got to be
aware you've got to take action right
now today if you you know appreciate
this message hit that thumbs up button
that's how you're supporting this
channel by hit literally hitting one
button I've got the playlist on my
channel if you want the Deep level of
information that get into only on on the
live sessions so we have live Zoom calls
these are on you know the Friday session
which we talk about the financial
matters on the Sunday we talk about
business in there we go over two hours
in each
session where you know I get into all of
it on the Sunday business live I talk
about building an online business so
that you can be um you know
geographically Diversified at the same
time you could pick up and you can go
when when you need to that's what Sunday
is all about Friday is really about the
financial matters that we uh discussed
today if you want to check out that link
in the description below and I'll see
you tomorrow take care